Waymo
Drago
So I was tech lead of 3D vision and post
estimation for Street View and got a lot
of exposure to all kinds of platforms that the
team was collecting data with, including boats,
snowmobiles, backpacks, and of course cars. And
afterwards, I got back a bit closer to my machine
learning AI roots. I worked on the team and
eventually ended up leading a team that developed,
even in those early years 2013 to 2015, large
neural networks for understanding images. And
so in those times, we had a very exciting set of
developments and architectures between Vantage
and we won the ImageNet challenges in 2014. That
used to be a very popular competition on object
understanding and detection and classification.
So we won those two challenges in 2014 with
the team that I lead and some collaborators from
Google Brain. And we also work a lot on launching
the backends that would annotate Google Photos,
Google Photos was first of its kind to offer deep
semantic annotation, photos enabling search, and
all the photos applications that they would do,
where they suggest you various events and albums
and so on and organize them. That was based on
backends and models that we developed at the
time, and that were launched in the Google data
centers. And around 2015, when I felt that deep
learning has entered the level of maturity that is
sufficient to potentially make autonomous driving
a reality, I got back into the autonomous vehicle
space, into robotics that I had been exposed to
in my early lab days. And so I joined initially
Zoox for two and a half years. It's an autonomous
driving startup. I led the perception team there,
helping them build out their, essentially
3D understanding and the machine learning
around it. And then I came to Waymo, right. So
that's my story more or less. I would say I'm a
machine learning person. And my initial expertise
had been on understanding images and 3D data,
geometry. And that's generalized to other
applications, since autonomous driving is a,
it's a complete robotics stack, which includes
all the key robotic systems, perception, planning,
behavior, prediction, simulation, mapping,
localization, and so on. So, by now I have
this maybe more of a cross functional exposure to
all of this through the lens of machine learning.
CRAIG
Your undergraduate
was where? And then at Stanford, you were studying
under Daphne Koller. And what was that work about?
Drago
Actually I did my undergrad
at Stanford too but afterwards, I continued into
a PhD that took six years. So I spent a total of
10 years at Stanford, it’s hard to get me to leave
for a while. I worked closely with Sebastian Thrun
because I was Daphne's first PhD student that
worked on computer vision perception topics and we
wanted access to robots and data from robots. And
at the time, Sebastian wasn't even at Stanford.
But Daphne somehow made a connection with him. And
I ended up visiting his lab in Carnegie Mellon and
collecting data with robots and shorting one
robot. I'm a software person, unfortunately
there's things I learned the hard way there.
But Sebastian was always a commenter of sorts,
even though my primary advisor was Daphne. I think
I've always worked with Sebastian as well, and we
have joint works and he was a key influence too.
CRAIG
Yeah. And so Waymo, when you
got involved with the company,
where was it in its development and where are
you right now? I mean, I know you have robotaxis
operating in San Francisco and Phoenix and I
hear you're gonna have them operating in LA.
Drago
Yeah, we have San Francisco and Phoenix
today. You can experience autonomous driving
it exists at scale in these cities. We give
10s of 1000s of rides to users in both cities
every week. And Waymo overall, has given our a
million of paid rides, driving over 10 million
miles autonomously as well. So that is the two
main markets that we have. The Phoenix area that
we cover today is around five times the size of
San Francisco. And next, we're looking to expand
and start actually paid rides. In the coming weeks
in Los Angeles. We got a permit a couple of weeks
ago, to expand to Los Angeles and charge and so we
will start doing this. And we also started doing
driverless rides for employees in Austin, Texas.
So we're going to be expanding in this fourth
market that we have announced as well. Now, my
time at Waymo has been a wonderful time, seeing
a transformation of the stack and getting to
maturity that I think has been a great experience,
and working with the talented team. I think when I
joined Waymo in 2018, In the summer, Waymo had hit
some great milestones. One of them was, in 2015
it gave the first fully autonomous ride in Austin
actually, a city we're getting back to. The person
called Steve Mahan, friend of the company, as a
blind person, the first ride involved him. And
so we had done that and we were working towards
our first commercial deployment. And so we were
evolving the stack to make sure that it will be a
safe and scalable deployment. And this eventually
happened in 2020, when we launched our Waymo One
service in Phoenix, East Valley, around Chandler.
And so that's been the journey. So, evolved
the first fully autonomous service in Phoenix,
East Valley, then get to San Francisco, and then
significantly upgrade the stack to be able to
handle the complex, dense urban environment of
San Francisco. And now we continue to all these,
more cities expanding in Phoenix, we will be
working also on tackling more highways, which is
important in large areas like Phoenix. Our area,
if we don't go on highways takes almost an hour
to cross on certain streets today. So, that's I
think, maybe the trajectory of the last five and
a half years. It's been tremendous also in terms
of development of machine learning and machine
learning technology. So in 2015, when I joined,
oh 2018 Excuse me, when I joined Waymo there was
already a lot of impressive machine learning work.
Especially, there was a lot of really interesting,
unique work on 3D perception using LIDAR. And
this was in collaboration with Alex Krizhevsky,
and the Dali Angelo, and other people from Google
Brain, Alex Krizhevsky being of the 2012 AlexNet
fame. So he took a lot of interest in autonomous
driving as an application. And he worked a lot
with Waymo and developed some really interesting
work, including inspiration to a first paper Waymo
ever did, even though we published it in 20, early
2019. It's called ChauffeurNet, it's actually
a model, a train model to predict and drive by
imitating others. That was really groundbreaking,
unique work at the time. And then that was still
relatively early in its development and maturity,
but it was very exciting as a concept. So we
publish that and we took all these technologies,
and we worked a ton on expanding them and
transforming Waymo stack. I think at this
point Waymo is an AI first company. So we strive
to maximize the impact of machine learning and its
power across most of our applications.
CRAIG
Yep, I haven't spoken to anybody about
autonomous driving for a while. I did
an episode with Alex Kendall, at Wayve AI, but we
were really talking about world models. In the in
the tech stack is Waymo, from what I've read,
you have detailed custom maps for navigation,
you have the suite of sensors, and then you have
neural nets that are kind of wired together to
process that data and guide the car. How much
hard coded stuff is in that stack, and how much
is pure machine learning?
Drago
So big parts of the whole stack are machine
learning. And this spans all the core systems
of Waymo. This spans things like the perception
system. And it also covers major models,
applying machine learning to planning,
behavior prediction or others and simulation,
and also lots of machine learning for employed
also in evaluation extracting signal from,
for example, simulation or other tests we
perform on the car. So at this point, I
would say all major parts of Waymo have powerful,
large machine learning models underpinning them.
CRAIG
Are all those models on the car,
or what's on the car, what's in the cloud?
Drago
So we have some flexibility. I think, especially
the whole evaluation system simulator, that is
in the cloud, right, because we develop a variant
of the stack, and then we need to test it. And we
tested in the data centers to a large extent, even
though we also tested with human safety operators.
And we want to have specialized areas where we
can stage certain rare situations. But testing
in the cloud and simulation is key. I think
generally we avoid requiring a human to drive
our cars at anytime. It's possible to ask a human
occasionally, specific question in some very,
very rare situations when preferably the vehicle
is usually, almost always, the vehicle is stopped
at that time, but that is also extremely rare.
And we're trying to minimize this. So the vast
majority of the system that drive the car, they're
on the car on the local compute, and they operate
fully autonomously as advertised.
CRAIG
And so how many models or neural networks
are involved in the driving system?
Drago
So there are several, right. I think
the history of our space is one of consolidating
models, right. And traditionally, many players in
the space, and also when machine learning was
in its relatively early stages and there was
limited computing data, it has been beneficial
to, or at least at the time, to partition the
tasks and have maybe one neural net to detect
bounding boxes and another to segment, say,
the scene into semantic segmentation of various
kinds and another maybe—. So traditionally,
that was the history. And now, what's changed
is we understand the power of what, the models
have become a lot more powerful, they're scaling
properties have become much improved, especially
with the advent of transformers, we understand
a lot better how to make models do well on many,
many tasks at the same time. That's actually
been an area of research by us and the whole
community. And some of these AI trends can
be leveraged to train very large models,
to transfer knowledge from the internet, and fine
tune on your tasks. So we have ways to make models
do well and a lot more tasks today. And there
is benefit then, in efficiency, in simplicity,
and quality usually, to consolidate. So there
has been a push to consolidate. That said,
it's an ongoing process. There's some very
interesting question whether you should have one
model or several, there is challenges in having
just one model in our case, especially if you need
to iterate on it and ensure it satisfies I mean,
hundreds to 1000s of requirements, right. You
need some way to be able to do work on parallel
problems in this domain, to ensure safety. And so
there is this constraint. And there is some other
constraints that make it difficult for our case,
for example, compared to say, traditional
robotics, maybe you talk to Peter Novig or Vincent
Vanhoucke they have it on a robot, and then they
have a world model and they can train it end to
end. For us, it's more challenging infrastructure
wise, because we have, say, over a dozen camera to
two dozens, we have a few LiDAR, we have a few
radar fitting all this data for all in one on
the computer and scaling it is quite daunting. And
that even motivates potentially training things in
stages and so on, right. So I would say that the
answer is we are evolving, and we are evolving,
satisfying, both when the learnings in the
industry and the requirements in production,
and generally the trend is to consolidate.
CRAIG
Yeah. And I know it's a very complicated system,
but can you can you sort of walk us through how
the car drives? I mean, they're the sensors and
they're feeding the data into a perception model,
and then the perception model, I mean,
just kind of walk me through the pathway.
Drago
So, the simplest way to think
is the onboard system, right. And there's a lot
of very interesting problems and questions when
you build the simulator as well. But let's talk
about, which is also machine learning task to me,
by the way, I'm a machine learning person and
ultimately, we want to solve problem with the data
we have as much as possible. But the traditional
autonomous vehicle stack takes data from sensors,
can be camera, LiDAR, or radar. And then there
is a perception stack that processes this data,
and creates a representation of the world.
And this representation of the world,
one of the key aspects of it is it wants to
be expressive, but also concise, right. And in
that representation, then you train your behavior
and potentially simulation models because that's
a representation of the world, and then you
need to in that representation of the world,
you need to plan what you're doing. And you need
to also potentially imagine what the world is
going to do in response to your plans to validate
that your class can be safe. So essentially,
there's this main two parts to the stack
perception produces a model of the world,
and then in that model of the world in plan, you
validate your plans, that's the behavior system.
And the model of the world is very interesting.
So there is a lot of interesting question of what
it can or should be. Traditionally, we have
opted for at least partially interpretable,
intermediate representation. So one of the things
that has been very beneficial in our space, and I
think it's generally superior to treating all the
sensors as a, an ordered collection of sensors is
to take their data, fuse their representations in
the knowledge provided to them, and create what
I call a bird's eye view model of the world. So
you, essentially, you center a grid, or implicit
grid on the space around the vehicle, and you
essentially populate this grid with everything,
all the information that you require from the
sensor. So that's been very popular and there
is certain benefits to having interpretable
representations, people understand them,
they know what the problems are, they
can annotate or correct them. And so,
the drawback of those is you need to label data
to create them typically, they're representations
that we have chosen, because they satisfy
requirements interpretability, testability,
right. Potentially people can look at the outputs
of a system and impose further constraints or
corrections that's why you asked me,
is all your system just a neural net,
our system is hybrid even though big parts of it
are neural net and we strive to solve the majority
of the problem with machine In learning, we still
build such a presentation and design where you can
control and steer this system by experts, right,
that can introspect the results and introduce
additional constraints requirements on top of what
the machine learning models do. And that has been
very beneficial for robustness and safety.
CRAIG
I guess that's where Wayve is different. They,
they're creating a world model and then everything
happens, all the planning happens in that,
the simulation and planning happens within
the world model.
Drago
I actually don't think they’re that different,
honestly. I think that it was oversold. I have
a perception system, it produces a compressed
version of the world, in our case, some of it
is interpretable but you can also have various
embeddings or quantized embeddings of tokens,
trained end to end that can also be
produced, right. It's a question of
choices in that representation. And then given
that representation, you have prediction models,
and these are you can call them, they’re world
models. And there is a question of which exactly
world models do build? Do you build the model that
just dreams all the video, all your cameras? Well,
you can but on board, maybe that is overkill.
So then which things do you choose to dream and
autoregressive or predict concisely so that you
still satisfy your requirements, that's a very
heavy way. But we still have major machine
learning models that are still word models,
just the design of them may be different. And
we also can train end to end. However, right,
we have also put historically a lot of focus
on having intermediate representations because
we have found they're very important so far,
in actually building a fully working system.
Machine learning is great, but it has limitations,
there's always cases where eventually you want to
impose guardrails of constraints and intermediate
representations are very powerful for doing it.
Now, lately, there's been yet one more trend with
large language models and the like. Now there is a
lot, kind of language based representations.
So language compatible embeddings are very,
very popular for robotics because they bring a ton
of knowledge from the internet and the that said,
the model, the language models that they
trained on, which makes it, I mean, the system
understands a lot more common sense and be able
to interact with humans. So now that is also very
interesting to us, right. So language or language
compatible representations are great. That said,
there is also another learning in our domain, you
really need these representations to be spatially
correct. So our models, perception system needs
to be very powerful in spatial reasoning because
spatial reasoning, the ability to represent the
world and ultimately evaluate your plans in the
world is key to ensuring safety. And so these
concepts are now overlapping and I think we have
a lot of exciting, both experience, expertise, and
of course, we're also experimenting with the best
mix of these concepts.
CRAIG
Yeah. I mean, I just had Vincent Vanhoucke
on the podcast talking about RT2. And in that
system, which is amazing, and I mean,
stuff is advancing so quickly, how do you—
Drago
We’re very much inspired by their work and follow
it. And I think there's a lot of parallels to our
domain. There is certain differences where we are
a lot more concerned about correctly predicting
and modeling the behavior of others just because
in our domain, it's so important to interact
correctly with all the traffic participants.
CRAIG
Yeah. You know, a lot of people don't
think of cars as robots, but they are.
Drago
They're absolutely robots with well
established hardware stack, yes.
CRAIG
Yeah. Is your system, could it be adopted,
or adapted for other kinds of robots?
Drago
I think, definitely, it can be adapted. I think
a lot of the concepts across the various robotic
systems over time, I believe are converging. There
are still certain peculiarities in our domain,
you can think of our robot, maybe as the first
manifestation, maybe the most economically-
hopefully impactful, and application impactful of
most robotic applications. At least I believe it,
and that's why I'm in this domain. But a lot
of these concepts, of you, know how to build
their stock, how to test your stock, how to ensure
robustness, what kind of machine learning models
you do. I think we're we're becoming more and
more similar across robotic, but yet, in our
case safety, especially of high speed, we have
a lot more requirements of those kinds. You need
to need to have very fast reactions, you need to
have very high bar to safety, the interacting, it
sometimes in parts of second with other agents who
could behave also irrationally or adversarially,
we need to handle all of this. And the other part
is we have very many sensors on the vehicle to see
in every possible direction. And in our case,
we've opted for a lot of additional safety by
adding LIDAR radar, which active sensors, they
ensure that even if machine learning in cameras
misses something, we have other ways to capture
it, right? So when we put all this together,
there are certain differences. But if you
build the stack for autonomous vehicles,
we can build on top of the strengths of this
stack, we can adapt it to many other elements.
CRAIG
Yeah, and as the system evolves, when
you were saying that it's evolved a lot,
and then there's all this new research coming
out with generative AI and large language models,
multimodal models, how do you—
Drago
It's a great time in our space. I think robotics
is, I think progress in robotics, I mean, is
accelerating even though we're an example of
already a successful robotics product out there
in the real world.
CRAIG
How do integrate these new technologies
as they come along? Obviously you do have
a whole research arm? That's the assessing, but
when do you decide to bring that into the car?
Drago
So the great thing at Waymo is we have the
data and the frameworks to test the performance
of our stack. And so the history of Waymo,
as you know, we've been around 15 years, and the
technology in this 15 years has been dramatically
evolving. And every two or three years, there's
major advances in our space, right. And so we've
had to continually rethink and redesign our stack
to take advantage of the latest technologies. And
so the core is, is not machine learning, is we
have the data and the evaluation, right. We have
collected, as you know, we have many hundreds of
vehicles out there in the world, various sensors,
we have a lot of systems that can process
this data, collect the interesting cases,
potentially automatically annotate things we
want, if we put super rare things we can get,
we have systems to annotate human guidance and so
on, right. And so we have all this data and now
it's a question of, okay, well, it's not that hard
to try new paradigm or models and compare to the
performance of your previous models. And anytime
we can show a significant improvement, then we
evolved the stack and this was on many times
already so we continue doing this. But the data
is the key, right? So because you have all this
data, and you have all these testing frameworks,
and safety frameworks, and very rich evaluations,
the key is to be able to tell when you're better,
right. And we worked hard to be able to do that.
CRAIG
Yeah, there's so many questions I want to ask,
one is on corner cases that arise in this long
tail. I read something this is for five years ago
I think, of a case where an autonomous vehicle, it
may have been Waymo, drove up behind one of these
big tanker trucks with a highly polished back that
was like a mirror and that confused the system.
How do you deal with that? Do you add that to
your training data or do you tweak the algorithm?
I mean, how do you deal with those corner cases?
Drago
So, you can annotate your data, right. And you
can use it either for training or for testing. And
clearly, the very first thing you want to ensure
when you, say very rare cases is you want a test
set to ensure that you got it right. And then you
look for more cases like this, and you have those
two training sets to help you get it right. But
I think in our case, because we have also radar,
and we have LiDAR, and we have camera, we will see
the truck, we want see just car reflected in the
truck. So we by design have mitigated this to a
large extent compared to camera on the system. For
example, some people had an idea, well, let's put
a TV on the back of my truck and it’ll show you
the world in front of the truck, in the TV, right?
Well imagine the autonomous driving car with
a camera looking at that TV thinking what's in
front of me, I don't know, is there a car there?
Maybe it's not so relevant because it may look
even far away in some cases but there can be a lot
of confusing things. And that's why having more
sensors, so different modalities, quite conducive
to safety. That's not the only one but we collect
these rare examples, we mine for them, we add
them to the training and testing data, and we
validate the stack can handle them. I think it's
a standard engineering machine learning approach.
CRAIG
Yep. Can you talk about the open
data set, the Waymo open data set? And as part of
that, Vincent was talking about the RTX project
where they collected data from all these various
labs where the data has been siloed for years.
And then combined it and then sent it back to
the labs to train on the bigger dataset and there
were improvements. Were you part of RTX? And how
does the Waymo open data set fit in your stack,
and then in your training?
Drago
So let me explain. I mean, generally we’re
separate markets, I think that dataset is
primarily focused at objects or robots, that
manipulation is on a table, right. And ours is
focused on understanding the outdoors, environment
and traffic scenes. So it has somewhat different
parameters. The reason why we made the Waymo open
data set is based on the realizations we had in
the early years, especially around 2018, when we
really started the project, but even before. We
did research in the space, and the data sets that
were available, even though Seminole did great,
there was a dataset called KITTI at the time that
was made in 2011, 12 by Karlsruhe and I think
European collaborators. So, we started seeing that
dataset does not satisfy our needs when we build
the actual stacks. And the problem there was it
was typically very, very small. And when the data
set is small for a machine learning person, it
distorts the kind of models that win. So then that
dataset, to do well, it encourages you to build
models that either have a lot of built in bias,
or you built in a lot of overfitting techniques,
which is not at all what you're gonna do when you
build the real stack. And so we understood the
set of problems they covered were a bit limited,
but what was even more so is the data. And
so the academic community, such talented,
great community— And it's not easy to get your
hands on large amounts of reasonably clean,
autonomous vehicle data. I mean, you need to have
a vehicle you need to place all the sensors you
need to instrument them, you need to align the
times and calibrations in the poses is just very
prohibitive, right. And so we wanted to enable
the community and the best way to do this and to
unlock the talent is to give them the right kind
of data. And through this Waymo open dataset,
this was our attempt to push what is possible
in the standards, the amount of data and the
quality of data that this community would get. And
I would like to think that we did a good part into
popularizing and enabling a lot of very strong
AI work, and in addition to releasing data and
enriching it with more and more labels over five
years. So we constantly improve the dataset based
on feedback and our understanding about the space,
and we expand the things you can do with it. They
expand the set of tasks you could potentially
try to show state of the art in. And we also,
as we introduce new tasks and labels, we create
challenges. And the challenge allows our different
researchers across the world to compare their
solutions on criteria that are informed by
experience in the space. For example, what's good
3D semantic segmentation? What is a good metric
for simulated agents, right? We take the learnings
we have from our space, and help them essentially
create leaderboards where people can compare
their contributions on definitions of problems
informed by us. So this has been an ongoing five
year effort and we're launching actually, next
week, today's March 12, when we're taping this.
We expect next week to launch or the week after,
our 2024 versions of challenges. There
are four challenges on exciting problems,
3D semantic segmentation, 3D occupancy prediction,
and 3D flow prediction challenge. Then we have
motion prediction in terms of trajectory
challenge and embodying simulated agents.
So these are the challenges this year, and
the winners will get prizes and the best
work will get invitations to present it CVPR
Premier Computer Vision Conference in June,
at our workshop that we're organizing with other
academic collaborators. So I encourage people to
check it out. Especially if you're interested
in our domain or doing research in our domain.
I think there's some very exciting challenges
this year. And I believe this is our fourth or
fifth year of the challenges. So we do our best to
sustain improvements to the dataset and the amount
of tasks we release over time.
CRAIG
Yeah, on the dataset, how is it collected?
Drago
It was collected by Waymo vehicles, the cities
of San Francisco and Phoenix. The majority of
the data was collected around 2018, or 2017,
which is when we chose a lot of the run segments
or the snippets of real data that we decided to
release. And we released 2000 or so run segments.
They're sequences of LiDAR and camera data for 20
seconds. And we've released since then 100,000 run
segments, both with intermediate representation
in terms of road graph and bounding boxes
moving around for the various objects. But we also
released LiDAR for those segments, in this series,
even image embeddings. So 100,000 segments is very
low, very large number. It's quite prohibitive to
release all the sensor data, camera data for five
plus cameras on this but we released compressed
versions of the camera representations to enable
the Atmore research, and to combine in camera
Lidar and intermediate representation, to see
how good prediction can be made. The key for
us is that this imitative prediction of agents is
one of the key crutches in our domain for machine
learning, because we observe how everyone drives,
we observe how everyone walks. But in general,
you can learn a lot about driving by watching
drivers and that's a key. That's one of those
field domains where, you know, maybe for
other robots, you never see how a certain
dog robot should walk much in the real world.
But for driving, you do. And so it's really,
really powerful data and we have been pushing
a lot of researchers. You can see some of our
challenges this year of predicting various things
to take advantage of this key part of the data.
CRAIG
Are there other contributors to
the dataset, other self driving car companies, or
other labs that that have data that's relevant?
Drago
I think people contribute other
labels to our dataset and do potentially their
own leaderboards or competitions on top of that.
There are other companies that have released
data sets as well. We're not the only one since
we started, right. So this also shows that
the companies themselves understand that this
is an important thing to do. And as the field
evolves, your understanding of the problems we
want to make as challenges and the data needed to
support them evolves. And so you I think we will
be as a community, and I hope it Waymo we can
sustain what we're doing. But as a community,
I would expect that there'll be a lot more
interesting releases and challenges possible.
CRAIG
Yeah, the data as it’s coming
in from your cars, are the cars sharing data with
each other in real time? Or is the data going back
to a central repository?
Drago
So it’s collecting in a central repository. When
our cars drive, they typically don't send each
other's data to each other that presumes that
you will have very high bandwidth connections,
it's actually a lot of data, it's hundreds of
millions of pixels in LiDAR scans a second. So
that's why the storage even for the things
we're releasing is so big, it's almost a
terabyte, right? If not more. And so even when we
compress it, right? So these are the challenges.
But when they're in the data center, sometimes we
see the scene from several vehicles at the same
time, right, which can of course, help us at that
time reconstruct much higher fidelity models of
well, what is seen by now, a collection of Waymo
vehicles, not a single vehicle, this is possible,
but it's not common practice in the field.
CRAIG
Part of the trajectory is to make
the models generalize more and more.
Drago
That's one of the main tasks
of the machine learning problem, you make the most
of the data, you have both to build the agent and
to build this environment to test the agent.
These are the two main problems as I see them,
right. Now, of course, you can break them down
into subproblems but that is at the core of it
for the data you have that you're collecting,
and maybe keeping how much of this can I learn
with my models. The more I can learn, right, the
more we tilt the system towards machine learning
solutions because those just scale. Then I go
to any new environment, I collect more data,
it will just learn from it, right.
CRAIG
In different parts of the world, I remember in
the early days there was a lot of talk about,
you train a system in Scandinavia and then try
and operate it in, I don't know, the Philippines.
Drago
Yeah, I go to Singapore and everyone drives
on the left side, right, for example?
CRAIG
Yea, do you need different datasets to train
models for different environments, different
regions? Or do the models generalize enough
that they can quickly adapt to a new region?
Drago
So we've seen that with large models, right,
they actually benefit combining the data and this
parallel with development in the generative AI
field, right. They try to train them on some
large internet scale datasets. Or when you
train a translation model, often you're training
it on multiple languages at the same time. So when
size is not the constraint, there is positive
feedback across different tasks and different
regions. And we've seen some of the seven in the
case of, say, car data helps trucks, right. So you
need now a lot less drag data to do well, because
you can just mix in large proportions of the car
data that you have. And lo and behold the results
improve, right? And the same is true across
cities, and environments, and conditions for
larger models, we essentially would look to pull
all the data and train much larger model and then
essentially, potentially distill this model, or
adjust it to fine tune it to the specific cases as
needed. But that seems to be the recipe today. So
we aim to have one Waymo driver and as few of them
as possible. Traditionally, so far, all the cities
we drive is a single set of models. It's not yet
fragmented, said that's really hard to maintain,
and it's not scalable. That's not what you want.
CRAIG
Yeah, I don't know if you can talk about
the Cruise debacle. We don't have to talk
about the company, but what went wrong there?
And how is Waymo avoiding those problems?
Drago
I mean, I would say that, to me,
the lesson is safety comes first. It's paramount,
right, and I think trust is key. And so it's very
easy to lose people's trust. And ultimately,
I would like to think that so far Waymo has
a track record of is expanding thoughtfully
and successfully in the domains where we have
operated. And so we want to expand relative to
what we believe is beneficial and safe. And I
think we have a lot of data to show that our
deployments, I think, compared to, especially
to humans, in various studies is shown that crash
rate is a lot less and our property damage claims,
there is actually a collaboration with a Swiss
insurance company showing injury claims went to
zero with our vehicles. That’s based on 3.8 miles
that they analyzed and property damage claims went
down 76%, right. And this is track record that we
want to have and continue expanding on. So we look
to expand thoughtfully. And I think the way to do
it thoughtfully is to have extremely robust safety
methodologies and analyze what you put out there
with incredible rigor. And honestly, our safety
methodology is very multifaceted. So there is
no one golden hammer to ensure the safety of the
system and there is no one golden machine learning
model simulator to prove that your system is safe.
Our learning is, you need to approach what we have
with a variety of methodologies and make sure that
we looked at it from many angles. And so this is
actually one of the most main recipes that make
Waymo Waymo, is that we have been working on this
for 15 years. And there is a level of maturity
that honestly when I joined Waymo at the time,
that was one of the things that most impressed me,
is that type of work.
CRAIG
Yeah, so it wasn't that the data set was
inferior, or the models were inferior,
or there weren't enough guardrails, or hard
coded rules; it's sort of a combination?
Drago
I mean, you want to build a
system that you convinced yourself is safe to put
out there, right. That's a high bar. That's not
a simple question to solve, right. And I think
at Waymo we tested extremely extensively in a
variety of different ways. And that determines how
quickly we expand, is our success in our tests,
right. We do this also thoughtfully. We need to
engage and work with the community. So, Phoenix,
we have been delivering rides close to six years
now, right. And over time, now we're at a scale
which is quite noticeable and thousands of people
or maybe tens of thousands take us every week;
but it's not like we, were not reckless,
right. It's hard for me to talk about Cruise,
per se. This is more of a lesson for us. I think
that ultimately the details of the incident that
had them grounded, I think a lot of the details
are out there and people can judge for themselves.
But we need to ultimately build trust and a lot of
this trust is based on the safety record you have.
CRAIG
Yeah, from what I
understand China has more robotaxis deployed than
the US. Do you think that they're, presumably you
pay a lot of attention to what they've got on the
road, do you think that they're ahead of you guys?
Or is everybody kind of on the leading— self
driving car systems on par? And then the other
question I want to ask is— as I see we're gonna
run out of time, there's a lot of confusion about
Tesla's system. Does it approach what Waymo is
doing? Or is it something different altogether?
Drago
So maybe let me first
address the Chinese companies question. I mean,
clearly, a few companies there have started fully
autonomous deployments. Unfortunately, I don't
have full visibility into their system, I have not
had the chance to ride in them or study them. I
mean, a lot of that design is proprietary. I think
ultimately, one needs to experience the service
and the people who are best suited to applying
how we all compare technology wise, is people who
experience all these different services, right.
Clearly in China that’s an area of investment and
maybe even government assisted domain, right. That
said, they're not here currently in meaningful
deployments, so we're not head-to-head with
them. And I don't follow them that closely even
though I understand that, you know, that is an
area of rapid development. In terms of companies
like Tesla that deployed more Driver Assist type
technologies, I think, you know, I appreciate the
machine learning work and innovations they do;
I think to me in their nature, the system is
not full self-driving. So they do good machine
learning but as with most machine learning,
I’m a machine learning person and as much as
I appreciate it, right, there comes a time when
you get to situations that are extremely rare,
and machine learning cannot handle. And to have
real deployment out there, you need to carefully
think through your stack to make sure that even if
machine learning does not solve everything 100%,
your full self-drive product does. And that's a
very big gap. I think that's not easy to do at
all. And it leads potentially to rethinking core
parts of your design, if you are to go there. And
so I mean, all of our machine learning models
are improving. To release a driverless service,
you need to also answer the question of how to
make sure the whole thing is fully robust. And
that adds a level of design and complexity that
a lot of those companies have not tackled yet.
CRAIG
Yeah, would your system ever be
available for consumers to buy?
Drago
I mean, in the beginning Waymo’s charter,
Waymo’s driver, we eventually want to enable many
different kinds of use cases and form factors. I
think our first, kind of, flagship application is
ride-hailing. But we're building a general stack.
I mean, we discussed that maybe we can transfer a
lot of the models or types of models that were
built for autonomous vehicles to other mobility
robots. But even before that, we aspire to build
a stack that learns from that, and generalizes
across these platforms, and enables various
autonomous driving applications, preferably
with as similar of a system as possible, or
maybe the same system. That is possible. So I
think down the line, we have the opportunity
to build solutions for personal vehicles,
for trucks, potentially other form factors. But
I think ultimately, for a company to succeed,
you need to nail your first product. I think
where we are is, I mean, I personally really
enjoy riding in our vehicles. I think it's a
delightful experience. Of course, I'm biased,
but they’re available. Everyone can try them.
You can come to San Francisco, and Phoenix,
and soon LA and Austin, and just ride them,
judge for yourself. But it exists, it's real,
it's out there, and we've proven that the product
exists. Now it's on us to make sure we can have a
great business doing it and expand from there.
CRAIG 52
Yeah, and how long do you think before every city
has a robotaxi service? And then how long beyond
that before they're autonomous vehicles on the
highways and all over the United States? I mean,
I understand it's largely a regulatory issue,
but in terms of the reliability and the safety.
Drago
We are expanding every year, rapidly. You can
think about it for now in a multiplicative phase.
So every year we go many times the driverless
deployments we've had before, right. And even
though that's thoughtful expansion, I believe.
So it will take a few years to continue this
trend until people really feel it all over the
place. And to me, mostly, I don't count how many
cities we will be in. I want to build the stack
that makes it economically great and scalable to
do a city, n+1. And so there is a ton of headroom
still possible with the technologies that are
being developed. And so I hope we can facilitate
it. I believe it's not far out. My personally
great hope is that this multiplicative expansion
of operational design domain, in its scope
and volume, if we sustain it for a few years,
people will see these cars in many more places.
CRAIG
But you think, I mean, you're quite a bit
younger than me. But do you think in 10 years,
when I'm still— got my arms, I hope?
Drago
I mean, sure, I'm an optimist generally. And as
an optimist, I would say it should be less than
10 years and probably by some margin.
CRAIG
Yeah, that's exciting. And where in the
development of the, either the data or the tech
stack, what are you most excited about?
Drago
I'm excited about, I mean, all this great
technology we have that allows us to generalize
a lot better from the data we have. And I think
we understand better and better how to land these,
kind of, scaling multipliers. So the more I can
learn from the data, and that they have, right,
I'm excited about keeping up with improving our
scaling multipliers on what we can learn from
the data, the more we do this, the faster
we will expect, right. Because ultimately,
machine learning, a lot of the other things, So
when you get to the hybrid design of the system,
then when you need humans to essentially add
expert expertise or guardrails. That doesn't
scale very well. But machine learning is our
great scaling tool. And we can use it, the
faster we will, we will grow across the areas that
we serve. The other part that really encourages me
actually is, maybe the thing that makes it easier
to do this, which is; so what we've discovered is,
after you cover some of these areas, for example,
Phoenix is more, parts of it are 45 miles an hour
road with certain challenges. San Francisco is
dense-urban with certain challenges. Maybe we
cover the highway; now there’s a lot of work on
harnessing the highway and starting to enable
that for customers. I think what we saw is
that after you have, say, Phoenix and San
Francisco and you go to LA or Austin, it takes
a lot less work and effort. And a lot of it is
actually in validating our system, that it does
well as opposed to actually making it do well. So,
the learnings generalize, and that's a great
kind of wind at our backs. And so as long as
we design the system well, and we don't, I
mean, again, partition every city for itself,
now we actually benefit from San Francisco to
do LA, and we benefit from Phoenix to do LA,
and then they have more cities that the city
plus one will benefit from that. And so, I see
it also as, that's a great property, right. Scale
begets scale in sense. And then, you know, having
these deployments, having all these experiences,
and the data from them will help us with next.
CRAIG
So the ambition is
that there'll be fleets of robotaxis in every city
and town. And will it be, from what you can see,
I know that you're not on the business end of
this, but will it be inexpensive enough that
people will not need to own a car? You just, on
your phone, you summon a robotaxi, it arrives
in five minutes, you go where you're going? I
mean, in much of the way that Uber operates?
Drago
So I will tell you now, right, we're roughly
the same price, but we’re much better experience,
personally. Again, I'm a Waymo representative so
that's my personal bias, but you're in the vehicle
by yourself, you can play the music you like,
there is a certain level of, I mean, it's a hand
vehicle. It's a premium experience today for the
price of a normal experience, right. I think over
time there is a tremendous opportunity to optimize
both our models and vehicle cost, and operations
to make it yet more affordable than it is. Now,
there is a lot more work that needs to be done and
I think it will shift from, for now we don't even
have as many vehicles as is the demand, over time-
hopefully. As we make it more affordable and yet
better experience, then it's a beneficial look. If
we can succeed with this, we'll expand the market.